Good morning Hank, it’s Tuesday.
Today I want to talk about the
phrase H of G which is maybe my
very favorite saying of the many, many,
many sayings of Dr. Paul Farmer the co-founder
of Partners in Health who died last month
at the age of 62. H of G is short for
hermeneutics of generosity. Now if you’re
anything like me, you run screaming from
the mere existence of the word hermeneutics.
Like there are many reasons I chose not to go
to divinity school after working as a
hospital chaplain, but the thought of
having to use the word hermeneutics
a lot was certainly on the list. But
basically hermeneutics just means
interpretation. A hermeneutics is like
the interpretive lens you bring to
looking at a text. Especially a sacred
text. And because I was a double
major in English and religious studies,
by the time I graduated from college
I had been hermeneuted half to death
and the word had sort of lost all
meaning to me until that is, I heard
Dr. Farmer talk about a hermeneutics
of generosity. Here’s how Paul once defined
an H of G, “I know you’re a good guy.
Therefore, I will interpret the things you
say and do in a favorable light.”
That’s the H of G. I know you’re
a good person so I will interpret
what you say and do in a favorable
light. Even if I don’t know you.
I will assume you are a good person
unless I have very strong evidence
to the contrary because almost
everyone is trying their best.
And almost everyone sees their
own actions in a generous light.
So I’m going to try and do that too.
The H of G is, like most things,
much easier to say than to do.
What are things that are easier
to do than they are to say?
Rumination. It’s not that hard
to say, but it’s just so easy to do.
Anyways, the H of G is hard to
do in practice, right? Like imagine
you’re in a grocery store and
you’re on a tight schedule and
you only have a couple items.
And the person in front of you
has like 14 crumpled coupons
that they’re smoothing out one
by one so that they can be scanned
and the whole process is taking forever.
It’s relatively simple to deploy
the H of G in this situation, right?
You just tell yourself that
this person’s children crumpled
up the coupons and that the
coupons are really important to
them being able to afford groceries.
But what if this person is digging
those coupons out of a designer
purse that you happen to know
costs 4,000 dollars. What if they’re
yelling at the supermarket clerk
for failing to scan the coupons fast
enough, or yelling at you for reasons
that aren’t entirely clear to you.
Now it’s getting much harder to
deploy the H of G. Harder, but
not, Dr. Farmer would argue,
impossible. When people yell,
it is because they are afraid or angry.
And I have found that when I can
deploy an H of G which certainly
isn’t all the time, I am on average
more empathetic, more curious,
more engaged, and less judgemental,
angry, and miserable. Now this is
not in any way to minimize the role
that anger and disgust play in bringing
about change. I think we should be
angry about injustice, and I think the
world’s shared apathy to the most
poor and the most marginalized
should bother us. But I also think
if we look at the world through a
lens of generosity and a presumption
of general good faith, the shared big
problems of injustice and inequity
\are no longer merely about people
being terrible or systems being
inherently crappy. Instead, these
problems become about failures.
Failures of empathy, failures of resource
allocation, and failures of will.
We can address those failures.
They aren’t inevitable or necessary.
We can see from history how they’ve
already changed. And so now,
progress feels possible. Not only that,
but the world’s profound and horrific
injustice becomes even more profound
and horrific. Because we know now
that together we can choose a
better world. And so I think an H of G
is hard work precisely because it asks
us to believe that together we can
address our shared problems.
The failures of empathy and resource
allocation that led to marginalization
and impoverishment. Dr. Farmer left
us with many legacies. But that is one
I’m trying to hold onto in these
difficult days. Hank, I’ll see you on Friday.